Akeskous
Osama
Data Scientist and Software Engineering
oussama.akeskous@gmail.com +212687162490 Agadir Osama Akeskous https://github.com/oussamaaxkos
Master’s student in Information Systems and Intelligent Systems with a strong foundation in Data Science, experienced in web scraping, Power BI,
and statistical analysis.
Experiences
Internship at ITINFODEV Company | Agadir (FSA Ibn Zohr) May 2024 - July 2024
Developed a multilingual and multi-currency e-commerce website, built a real-time mobile app
to analyze client behavior.
Final-year internship at SALAM INFOTECH | Agadir (EST Essaouira). April 2023 - June 2023
Collaborated with internal teams to develop a JavaFX desktop administration application with dynamic
AJAX/jQuery-based UI and real-time visualization of customer behavior
Introductory internship at CSN Morocco | Taliouine (EST Essaouira) April 2022 - June 2022
Ensure proactive communication with clients to understand and analyze their needs and concerns.
Design and development of a social media website aimed at facilitating communication between clients and the company.
Use of front-end technologies (HTML, CSS, JavaScript) and back-end technologies (Flask, Oracle Database) to create an
interactive and responsive platform.
Academic Projects
Sentiment Analysis of Customer Reviews for Bank Agencies in Morocco using a Modern Data Stack
Automated data pipeline using Airflow, DBT, and PostgreSQL with a star schema model. Visualized insights in Looker Studio from reviews
collected via web scraping (BeautifulSoup, Selenium).
Work Opportunities Scraper with Web Integration
Developed a job offer scraping system with BeautifulSoup, Selenium, and Airflow, integrating data into a real-time web platform.
SmartShop: AI-Driven E-commerce Search | PFE – EST Essaouira
Built with TensorFlow, CNN, and Flask for intelligent product search.
Data Analysis Project: Application of PCA and AFC methods
Used PCA and AFC with pandas, matplotlib, and seaborn to analyze and visualize multivariate data patterns.
Home Price Prediction Using Linear Regression
Cleaned data with Pandas and used Scikit-learn for linear regression. Deployed with a web interface for real-time predictions.
Education
National Institute of Statistics and Applied Economics | (INSEA) Rabat
2024 - Present
Master’s in Information Systems and Intelligent Systems
Faculty of Sciences | (FSA) Agadir
2023 - 2024
Excellence Bachelor's Degree in Software Engineering
Higher School of Technology | (EST) Essaouira
2021 - 2023
DUT Data Science
Mohamed 6 High School | Taliouine
2020 - 2021
Baccalaureate in Physical Sciences and Chemistry
skills
Data Extraction
Data Visualization
Machine Learning and Deep Learning HTML, JSON, API REST
Plotly and Seaborn / Power BI / Looker
Sequence Models / Regression Techniques / Convolutional
Neural Networks (CNNs) / LLMs Data Warehouse / Data Mining
AI/ML Frameworks & Technologies ETL, OLAP & Data modeling
Frameworks & Libraries Selenium, Playwright, BeautifulSoup, Scrapy
SGBD
TensorFlow, PyTorch, Scikit-learn
Programming Languages Relational ( Oracle, MySQL) NoSQL
(MongoDB)
Data Analysis Python, JavaScript, C, JAVA, SQL
Exploratory data analysis, feature engineering, and multivariate DevOps & Deployment
analysis (ACP, AFC) using pandas, NumPy Scraping Docker (containerization), Git & GitHub
Selenium, Playwright, BeautifulSoup, Scrapy
Languages Certificates Areas of Interest
Arabic : Native DeepSeek AI - Fundamentals of Large Self-learning
Language Models (LLM)
English : Very Good
Content Creation
Certificate in Deep Learning – Sequence
French : Good Sport
Models
